Hello friends.
This is now the 11th episode of this "Weekly Review".
This week's Review was a real success,
and I'll tell you why, it's because we are 120,000 subscribers now.
This is a major political fact, I don't know if you realize that.
Why? Because some people  have rallied in such a way that they created a media.
This channel is a media.
Each Weekly Review now reaches an audience
that is equivalent to the audience of a show on a 24/7 news channel.
I don't care that it takes 2 or 3 days to reach this audience
as long as it does.
So it's very important. It is a major political fact because it has never happened before until now.
The reason of this success is not me, although my swagg has a lot to do with it.
The reason is that some people subscribe to the channel.
They have an objective.
They want to achieve an outcome, and they're about to succeed.
So, in the ranking of French political and news Youtube programs
this Weekly Review is now well ahead.
But what's interesting and funny - and I hope this will make some people very jealous -
is that it also entered the global ranking!
So I pinch myself because it's hard to believe, but that's a fact.
Last week, I told you that the show was in the top 100 shows. Not bad, huh?
I mean, the world is big, and France is small. We're just 65 million.
And the world population is 7 billion, that's a lot of people!
So here we are! We're in the top 100 shows!
And we're now in the top 50!
OK. So this was the self-satisfaction part of this Weekly Review.
As usual, don't forget to give me blue thumbs up and to subscribe, that's how we boost the channel,
and that's the way we spread our ideas.
I just have one more thing to say, and I have to do it now because the year is drawing to a close,
and incidentally, that's a good thing.
So the year is drawing to a close, and what happens on December 31st?
I know it's New Year's Eve, thank you, but that's not the issue here.
The issue is that December 31st is the deadline to register to vote.
Don't tell me you'll do that on New Year's Eve, because I'm not buying it!
Besides, your town hall will probably be closed, so you need to go there before.
Why? To register to vote! If you don't, you won't be able to vote!
If you don't, you'll wake up in March or in April,
you'll be enthusiast about the election, you'll have decided who you want to vote for - me maybe -
and when you'll get to the polling station, bam! You won't be able to vote!
This will happen to those who forgot to register.
If you just turned 18 years old, you're supposed to be registered automatically, but even then, check if you were registered,
because 15% of potential voters realize that they were not registered on the day of the vote.
So these people wait in line, and they feel stupid when they're said that they're not on the electoral register.
First, they feel ashamed in the polling station, we have to take this into account,
and secondly, they can't vote.
This is for those who are supposed to be registered automatically,
and then there are those who think that they registered, but who didn't do it properly.
For instance last year, you were a student in Besançon - as all important people -
- in the School of Humanities for instance, like me - so you were registered in Besançon.
Then you moved to Paris to work as a teacher
- in the suburbs, as all the recently appointed teachers -
and you realize that you can't vote because you did not register properly.
So take care of that, people.
I'm saying this in a funny way so that you get my point and act accordingly.
But voting is the basis of democracy, you know?
So it's no use to make boastful statements like "we support democracy" and so on
if you don't even do what's necessary when it's time to put it into practice.
I know a lot of people will say "I don't give a damn anymore! The hell with them! I won't take part in this comedy anymore!"
and I understand them. There are thousands of reasons that could justify this.
I'm not going to lie to you, I know it!
But if you don't vote, you'll be taken in!
Precisely because those who turned your stomach are going to vote! No doubt about this!
They're going to vote for their friends!
Why? Because they want to maintain the status quo! That is, everything you hate,
and it's precisely because of this that you no longer want to vote.
So you must vote!
And if you must vote, it's not just because it's public-spirited and everything, even though I think it is,
but I won't use this argument because you're probably sick and tired of it.
But why should you vote? To get rid of them! This is your chance!
Usually, you have to go on strike to do that, it costs you money if you're lucky enough to have a job,
you have to demonstrate on the street, besides having to dodge Mr Cazeneuve's grenades... You know the drill!
But we're talking about putting a paper in a ballot box here! It's not so complicated!
You have to make a choice of course, but do it!
If you don't, things will stay the same, and we can't afford this because we'll suffer the consequences!
Not to mention those who could be elected if I'm not!
Let's move on.
Once again, I'm not saying this to frighten you, I just want to make you think.
As you know, COP 21 was held last year, and COP 22 took place in Morocco this year.
COPs are meetings involving all the nations and countries of the world to discuss
the way to reduce greenhouse gases emissions, CO2 in particular.
The situation is clearly not good,
because some countries signed, but... you see?
They signed in a way that showed they didn't want to.
The USA more particularly.
They signed the agreement, but it had to be ratified by the Congress, and they knew perfectly well that the Congress would not approve it.
They pulled it off, because... There's something you should know about international treaties:
there's the 'should' and the 'would'.
The 'should' means that countries have to do what's in the treaty,
and the 'would' means that maybe they would do it.
So everytime there's a 'would', you can be sure to fall for it hook, line and sinker,
because when someone says 'would', it means he'll do it if he wants to, that is, never.
That's what happened with North-Americans for COP 21,
so much so that in the end, they felt stupid because the Chinese said "Ok, we'll do it",
and they did sign 'should', not 'would'.
As for North-Americans... Nothing!
Then Trump was elected, and the guy didn't go to great lengths to deal with this issue.
He chose the head of a big oil company as Secretary of State, maybe the most powerful oil company in the world.
A most telling decision!
So... this is a serious situation!
Besides, he doesn't think that global warming is due to human activity,
and I don't even think that he believes global warming is a reality.
Those we call climate skeptics question figures to begin with, and then you realize that they don't believe any of this.
They think it gets warmer from time to time,
that it's the way climate is, that one season is good and the next one isn't.
So I'm telling you about that again because until now, I have explained to you several times in this Weekly Review
that the agreement that was signed at COP 21 says we should reduce the increase of global warming by 2 degrees Celsius.
Of course, 2 degrees is not such an admirable objective
because an increase of only 1.5 degree means that a lot of countries will disappear underwater
because of the rise of the sea level.
In truth, as soon as the agreement was signed,
people said "Here's what we are going to do in our country".
Some people then examined what all the countries planned to do and added these figures up,
and the result was an increase of 3.5 degrees Celsius,
and with an increase of 3.5 degrees, a catastrophe is bound to happen!
So such was the situation. I was very skeptical about this,
because I thought it was better not to scare people, and congratulate them on signing the agreement, which I did,
but I also kept saying "Careful! There's a problem with the agreement we just signed".
But people said it was OK, things would get better, although you see  they didn't.
And what is also not getting better is the real situation, and that's what I want to tell you about.
About ten years ago, I had a friend who was the mayor of Clermont-Ferrand.
He was a chemical engineer.
We were chatting, and we began talking about greenhouse gases and CO2.
He said "Well, CO2 is a problem, we can deal with it, but what's more complicated is that CO2 emissions
it causes the greenhouse effect, which causes global warming, which makes ice melt".
And the melting of ice has two consequences.
In tundra regions such as Siberia,
ice and snow layers that have accumulated for thousands of years are beginning to melt.
Some people did the math and realized that these layers contained putrefying plants
and a great quantity of methane gas.
So they assessed the effect of a 10 cm melting,
and there's bad news: it would have a disastrous effect.
A disastrous effect that was confirmed,
because the increase of methane gas in the atmosphere is now irrefutable, and this increase is way too sharp.
And since methane gas has a warming potential that is significantly higher than CO2, or carbon dioxide,
there's reason to worry.
So my friend then told me "You see, we'll go one stage further,
and when we get to the stage where ice melts and the sea level rises,
the ice at the bottom of the ocean will crack and bubble up to the surface".
And a year ago or two, I read on article about a guy who had a wonderful idea
- you'll see that businessmen always have strange ideas.
So the guy saw that there were icicles all over the place, and that they were full of methane gas.
He said "Great! You know what? We'll collect the icicles and sell the methane gas!".
It's a strange idea, but he did have it.
So these guys don't care about the impending climate catastrophe, business is business.
They keep making money even if there's an impending climate catastrophe.
This recent study is really alarming
because it shows that ground surface temperatures are increasing everywhere.
It's not only happening in the extreme areas I just talked about,
but also in permafrost areas
where methane gas emissions are increasing.
So global warming really needs to be taken seriously,
and the upcoming events too.
We have to understand that this is a real issue,
it's not an invention and it's not a game.
It's not a show you can watch on TV, comfortably seated at home.
It's something that's going to happen all around you.
We're talking about extreme weather events and the rise of the sea level, here.
These issues challenge us.
So let me repeat this for the hundredth time:
if the sea level rises,
and if the climate changes,
then we have a serious problem with nuclear power plants in this country,
especially with the Blayais nuclear power plant if the sea level rises,
and in the rest of the country in the case of extreme weather events.
So when I propose to transition into 100% renewable energy,
it's not just because I think it's a nice idea,
although I do think it is a nice idea.
It's because we're dealing with an emergency that puts the public interest at stake
Think about this, especially when you're making a choice about the candidate you want to vote for.
Do you want someone who takes care of that, or someone who doesn't have a clue and doesn't care?
When I listen to other politicians, all I hear is that they think nuclear energy is great!
They're all saying nuclear energy guarantees our independence and all sorts of cock-and-bull stories.
It's a lie!
Nuclear energy is dangerous, and we need to stop using it.
And don't forget that it will take us 20 years to do that.
We can't just press a button. It will take us 20 years!
We not only have to stop using it, but we have to dismantle nuclear plants, it takes time,
and we also need to produce other energy ressources.
We're not going to do without energy, that's not what I'm saying.
So think about this, because this is one of the issues that...
You know it's one of these awkward issues, so people don't deal with them - well I do.
So you'll have to form your opinion on this issue in a few months with a ballot paper,
because you'll have thought about registering to vote on time, before December 31st.
Now I'll move on to something that...
that probably shocked me as much as it shocked you,
but that also made me angry, because it gives my opponents the opportunity to treat me unacceptably
and I hope I'll get your support in this case.
We have all been upset by the images frop Aleppo that were recently broadcasted,
that show bombings on the eastern part of the city.
This event was used against me by some people in a way that is efficient from an electoral point of view
but that I morally disapprove of.
Some have claimed that I support the bombings on this part of the city.
I was deeply outraged by this.
How could anybody believe that
somebody would like bombings?
Let me tell those of you who have doubts about my opinion on the subject
that like you, it hurts and appalls me.
Besides, I have special means to know about the events in detail,
so maybe it hurts and appalls me
more than those who only rely on images.
However, I know that images are powerful.
In times of war in particular.
A popular idiom among journalists says:
"The first victim of war is the truth".
The manner in which some people express
their outcry before Aleppo's bombings
is a convenient way to remain silent about the dreadful hand-to-hand fight that is going on in Mosul right now.
I guarantee you that fighters in Mosul are not throwing cat food in the street or offering candies to kids.
As in Aleppo, bombings destroy everything there and buildings collapse.
And there are also bombings in Yemen right now.
As far as I'm concerned, every bombing is an abomination, not just some of them.
This is true of bombings but also of war in general.
When the situation is as serious,
when the fights in some place could contaminate
the whole region,
and when war could spread,
then we must be able to keep a cool head.
The problem in Aleppo, just like in Mosul,
Yemen or on the Turkish border
is one of regional powers fighting each other,
all hoping to grab a slice of the Syrian territory
that would enable them to access important resources, that is gas and oil pipelines.
It is nothing but that! The ongoing war is not religious. This is a war of interest,
and I think that those who try to bias our understanding of the situation in this region
are not serving anybody's interests, not even their own,
and history will show that they lied.
I remember only too well this period when we were overwhelmed with accounts
that were supposed to convince us
that there were weapons of mass destruction in Iraq
and that Saddam Hussein had almost personally unplugged the incubators of newborn babies in a hospital.
But then we realized that the person who said that was the daughter of a Saudi ambassador,
and it was nothing but a lie.
Of course, the bombings in Aleppo are horrible.
These fights are opposing some armies against one another,
and not just one army against civilians.
Those who at regular intervals are nicely described as rebels
are the fighters of an army that claims to adhere to islamism,
and that fires everyday upon the western part of the city, that is under government control.
Once again, I am not saying this in defence
of one side or the other,
I am just telling the truth about the situation.
And what should our position be?
It should be that of the French people and its interest, which is peace.
And the way to make peace prevail is to organize a universal coalition against ISIS.
But does everyone really want to stop ISIS?
Some countries had to recognize that they directly financed ISIS,
and to me, there is no difference between ISIS and other similar groups
such as the Al-Qaeda troops
that are fighting from eastern Aleppo,
that are directly reponsible for the murderous attacks that were committed in France.
We need to organize a universal coalition, and all
those involved in this war should come around the table
to discuss the real interests at stake in this conflict.
This first means that Syria should in no way
be dismembered.
The Golan in particular should not be separated from the rest of Syria.
Also, the Northern part of the country should not be separated and placed under Turkish control,
and the same goes for the Kurdish part of Iraq.
Finally, the Shiite central government should in no way keep persecuting the Sunni population, that composes the majority of a lot of cities.
Making peace consists in identifying issues first, and then attempting to solve them one by one,
and not in supporting and giving echo to the others' propanganda.
Now, I say it all the more resolutely that I read a paper today, in which Mr Jadot (Green Party)
- who thought it wise to fuel his never-ending disputes with me -
criticized me for being a friend of Mr Putin for the hundredth time, and even for having political ties with him!
Mr Jadot is definitely a very strange person. He used to be the Director of Greenpeace's field operation.
Back when a Greenpeace group of activists was arrested by the Russian Navy
while attempting an attack on an offshore drilling platform that was extremely dangerous,
I don't remember his complaining about the fact that Noël Mamère and I - not him! -
Noël Mamère and I signed a column to ask for the liberation of those Greenpeace activists,
even though we perfectly knew that this action was an act of piracy in terms of international law.
We thought it was an act of ecological rebellion, their authors had therefore to be supported.
At that time, I was on the side of these people,
and I still am.
So I would like to know why I am supposedly close to someone who put in jail
my only friend in Russia, the president of the Russian Front de Gauche (Left Front).
This is really untolerable and unworthy of a serious political debate between serious people.
War is a reality, it isn't a game or an alibi that one can use for their political campaign when opportunities arise.
Whether it is he, I or another one that becomes President next year,
we will have to face that problem and solve it
before war spreads to the rest of the world.
It is pointless to join the battalion of media fighters who day after day try to lead us to war with Russia.
Their conclusion is always the same: given the situation there in Syria, we should fight with the Russians here.
It seems absolutely insane to me,
I am absolutely opposed to this idea.
I am in favour of peace, both in Europe and Syria, and I try hard to achieve this aim
through a coherent policy and coherent demands.
You who are listening to me, think about this!
Do not let yourselves be dragged into war
alongside one or the other belligerent.
Think about the public interest first, which is peace,
and if we want peace, then we should try hard to make it happen, and not beat the drum for foreign armies.